# Readify

This project / repository keeps all of the relevant code for running the web
services behind Readify.

Readify itself is a link sharing site.  The general idea is something similar to
[delicious](http://delicious.com) by helping users save links they find
interesting, but don't have time to read yet.

It allows tagging links and has rudimentary social networking.  No following is
built in yet, but you can view another user's profile and see what links they
saved recently.


## What's a Readify?

Readify builds from [ListSurf](https://github.com/j2labs/listsurf) by adding
more sophisticated link handling, user profiles and a more robust JSON API.

Users can mark a link as "liked" or they can delete or archive links. User's
also have profiles and a settings page.  On the settings page a user can
configure a URL for an avatar or [Gravatar](http://gravatar.com/) will be used
with the user's email address.


## Setup

Running it currently can be easy. But first, we'll fetch the code and set a few
assumptions for the instructions.

    $ git clone https://github.com/j2labs/readify.git
    $ cd readify


### MongoDB

Readify uses MongoDB.  If you don't have it installed, I suggest you try the
[Quickstart](http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Quickstart) guide.


### Mongrel2

To setup Mongrel2, we first load the config into a sqlite data and then turn it
on.

    $ m2sh load -config ./etc/m2.conf -db ./etc/the.db
    $ m2sh start -db ./etc/the.db -every
    
The `-every` flag says to turn on every host in Mongrel2's config.  Readify is 
configured to support two domains: web.app & api.app.

If you want to run this locally, just add these two lines to your `/etc/hosts`
and we can fake the DNS for now.

    127.0.0.1    web.app
    127.0.0.1    api.app
    
I know this look weird, but it keeps development nice and easy when you're
running multiple services, like an API and a web site.


### Readify Environment

Let's make a virtualenv and install the requirements.

    $ mkvirtualenv readify
    
A standard readify install should use `./etc/std.reqs`.

    (readify) $ pip install -I -r ./etc/std.reqs

Then install readify itself.

    (readify) $ python ./setup.py install
    
In this terminal, enter the following command to turn on the web server.

    (readify) $ ./bin/web_server.py
    
We'll turn on the API server in the other terminal. We have to enable the
environment here too.

    $ workon readify
    (readify) $ ./bin/api_server.py


## How It Works

Readify is a simple link saving mechanism.  After creating an account, I
recommend going to the submit link to save a link.  This gets the experience
started by adding a link to your dashboard.

From there you can *like* it.  You could *archive* it, or *delete* it.
You can also visit your user's profile, but it will be empty until you visit the
settings page.

And also try using the bookmarklet provided on the submit page.  This will make
saving links for later much easier.


### What It Looks Like

![login screen](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/j2labs/readify/master/screenshots/login.png)

Login screen.

![Dashbaord](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/j2labs/readify/master/screenshots/dashboard.png)

Link dashboard.

![Submit link](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/j2labs/readify/master/screenshots/submit.png)

Submit a link.

![Liked links](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/j2labs/readify/master/screenshots/liked.png)

Liked links.

![User profile](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/j2labs/readify/master/screenshots/profile.png)

User profiles.

![User settings](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/j2labs/readify/master/screenshots/settings.png)

Settings.

![JSON API](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/j2labs/readify/master/screenshots/jsonfeed.png)

Paginated JSON API.
